---
layout: post
title: "eJPT"
author: "The_Alchemist"
date: 2021-08-28
tags:
---

## Description

This post details how I was able to get my eJPT. It also talks about some hardships you may come across, and some tips on how you would deal with them.

## So, why eJPT?

I've always wanted the OSCP, but as a 13 year old (at the time), I realized that I had no chance of getting into OSCP, at least not without a declaration that shows that I can handle it at my current age. Instead, I decided to go for eJPT, and then possibly get the eCPPT after that before heading for OSCP.

That doesn't mean that the eJPT is worthless if your situation doesn't match mine, though. It's actually a really great cert to have, considering it is completely practical and depends on you making a real security assessment, instead of answering a series of MCQs. Having the eJPT is probably worth more than having every single CEH cert.

## Course

eJPT's course is free. You can get it by signing up to INE's free pass. The course itself isn't bad at all. It consists of three sections:

- Penetration Testing Prerequisites
- Penetration Testing: Preliminary Skills & Programming
- Penetration Testing Basics

The first section just covers the basics, some networking, the theory, and so on. The second section covers several programming languages, and the third section is where you really get into practical pentesting. The coursework isn't hard and covers a lot of valuable information, and the labs are quite realistic and practical.

## Exam

I have a lot to say about the exam. But first, let me explain the parameters. You have to perform a practical security assessment on a virtual environment, and you have 3 ENTIRE DAYS (yes, you read that right) to answer only 20 questions. Needless to say, the exam is ridiculously easy.

The only problem is that well, after doing the exam, I realized that a very large amount of the content covered in the course was not tested here. This, for me, is a really big letdown. I expected most to all of what I learned to be part of the exam, but I'd say that only 10% of the content really got tested. In fact, you can pass the exam without even touching on the second section of the course. You won't need to write a single line of code.

I passed with a 95%, or 19/20 questions right. Technically, I got all of the questions I answered right, as I left one of them unanswered. If there's one piece of advice I can give you though, is that to NEVER PANIC. At some points during the exam you might feel a little panic because you're stuck on a question or on a problem. But don't worry! Panicking will only exacerbate your situation and cause you to perform worse. Worst case scenario, you have a free retake.

## Final Thoughts

Overall, I would say the eJPT was really easy for me. But don't take this as a testimony to whether you should do it. I have had a lot of practice before it previously with infosec, and I expected it to be a walk in the park. If it wasn't for the OSCP, I might've not taken it at all. But even for someone with 0 experience, it still is a pretty painless experience. I just recommend that you make sure to get lots of practice with CTFs after finishing the course, and maybe touching over the material a few times more.